Doc changes (#170)
timescale/pgai: README.md

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Join_us_on_Discord-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/KRdHVXAmkp)
[![Try Timescale for free](https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_Timescale_for_free-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=timescale&logoColor=white)](https://tsdb.co/gh-pgai-signup)
</div>

pgai simplifies the process of building [search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Similarity_search),
[Retrieval Augmented Generation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prompt_engineering#Retrieval-augmented_generation) (RAG), and other AI applications with PostgreSQL.

The goal of pgai is to make working with AI easier and more accessible to developers. Because data is
the foundation of most AI applications, pgai makes it easier to leverage your data in AI workflows. In particular, pgai supports:

**Working with embeddings generated from your data:**
* [Automatically create and sync vector embeddings for your data](#automatically-create-and-sync-llm-embeddings-for-your-data)
* [Search your data using vector and semantic search](#search-your-data-using-vector-and-semantic-search)

> * [Implement Retrieval Augmented Generation inside a single SQL statement](#implement-retrieval-augmented-generation-inside-a-single-sql-statement) 

Reviewer: I would maybe not make the whole sentence a link, the blue is a little hard to read sometimes. Also so many links early in the Readme can be a bit overwhelming.

     a pre-built Docker developer environment with a self-hosted Postgres instance with pgai and our vectorizer worker 

>      installed. This takes less than 10 minutes!

Reviewer: I personally would prefer to have a separate section (further up) that highlights the different entrypoints:
- Self-hosted
- Trial Cloud sign-up (and maybe mention our sample data flow)

Right now this whole section is a big blue link flood and I wouldn't know where to start:
<img width="500" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-25 at 08 17 16" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae9751ac-2a13-491c-ae55-5254c7d660eb">

Compared to this which gives the user a much more clear directions imo:
<img width="500" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-25 at 08 21 12" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/80232943-7b39-42cd-baf7-9e7fd77f6493">

Additionally, we could have a demo video at the top that runs through the selfhosted-quickstart or our cloud flow.

Attention spans are short, we should really show people within seconds what this repository is about and what it can do.

* **Everyone**: Use pgai in your PostgreSQL database.

>   1. [Install pgai](#installation) in Timescale Cloud, a pre-built Docker image or from source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. [Install pgai](#installation) in Timescale Cloud, a pre-built Docker image, or from source.
```

### Use pgai

The main features in pgai are:

**Working with embeddings generated from your data:**
* [Automatically create and sync vector embeddings for your data](#automatically-create-and-sync-llm-embeddings-for-your-data)
* [Search your data using vector and semantic search](#search-your-data-using-vector-and-semantic-search)
* [Implement Retrieval Augmented Generation inside a single SQL statement](#implement-retrieval-augmented-generation-inside-a-single-sql-statement) 

**Leverage LLMs for data processing tasks:**
You can use pgai to integrate AI from [Ollama](./docs/ollama.md), [OpenAI](./docs/openai.md), 
[Anthropic](./docs/anthropic.md), and [Cohere](./docs/cohere.md). Learn how to [moderate](./docs/moderate.md) and content directly in the database using triggers and background jobs.

### Automatically create and sync LLM embeddings for your data

The [pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector) and 
[pgvectorscale](https://github.com/timescale/pgvectorscale) extensions allow you
to store vector embeddings in your database and perform fast and efficient
vector search.  The [pgai Vectorizer](/docs/vectorizer.md) builds on top of

> these extensions to automatically create and synchronizes embeddings for any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
these extensions to automatically create and synchronize embeddings for any
```

text data in your database.

> With one line of code, you can define a vectorizer that creates embeddings for data in a table:

Reviewer 3: Do you think we should mention that you still need something to process those embeddings? In this case to run the Vectorizer Worker.

I'm concern about being a little disingenuous with "just one query", then you keep reading and find a "but then you have to run this other thing".

Reviewer 3: I mean, this is true for cloud, but not for self hosted. I don't have any ideas for this to be fair, so it might be fine as it is.

Author: I'm going to leave for now

```sql
SELECT ai.create_vectorizer( 
    <table_name>::regclass,
    destination => <embedding_table_name>,
    embedding => ai.embedding_openai(<model_name>, <dimensions>),
    chunking => ai.chunking_recursive_character_text_splitter(<column_name>)
);
```
This newly created vectorizer will automatically track any changes to the
data in the source table and update the destination embedding table
with the new embeddings asynchronously.

[Automate AI embedding with pgai Vectorizer](/docs/vectorizer.md) shows you how

> to implement embeddings in your own data. When you install pgai on Timescale
> Cloud, embedding are automatically created and synchronized in the background.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to implement embeddings in your own data. When you create Vectorizers in a Timescale
Cloud database, embeddings are automatically created and synchronized in the background.
```

On a self-hosted Postgres installation, you use a [Vectorizer
Worker](/docs/vectorizer-worker.md) to asynchronously processes your

> vectorizers.

Reviewer: Should we add a cloud UI screenshot here that shows how the vectorizer runs or similar?

Author: Yes we need to do some screenshot walkthroughs Let's leave for another PR

### Search your data using vector and semantic search

pgai exposes a set of functions to directly interact with the LLM models through SQL, enabling 
you to do semantic search directly in your database:

```sql
SELECT 
   chunk,
   embedding <=> ai.openai_embed(<embedding_model>, 'some-query') as distance
FROM <embedding_table>
ORDER BY distance
LIMIT 5;

> ```

Reviewer: Should we replace this with a real query and also show result data? If you scroll through to understand how it works it might be helpful to see what such a query accomplishes.

Author: Good idea. Can I leave this to you in a followup pr?

Reviewer: sure 👍

This is a perfectly normal SQL query. You can combine it with `where` clauses and other SQL features to 

> further refine your search. pgai solves the *missing where clause in vector search* problem for real.

Reviewer 3: Maybe cross sell timescale, with a small wink like combine it with timescale for time based filtering?

Author: i think cross-selling here would sound forced and weird

    RETURNS TEXT AS $$
    DECLARE
       context_chunks TEXT;
       response TEXT;
    BEGIN
       -- Perform similarity search to find relevant blog posts
       SELECT string_agg(title || ': ' || chunk, ' ') INTO context_chunks
       FROM (
           SELECT title, chunk
           FROM blogs_embedding
           ORDER BY embedding <=> ai.openai_embed('text-embedding-3-small', query_text)
           LIMIT 3
       ) AS relevant_posts;

       -- Generate a summary using gpt-4o-mini
       SELECT ai.openai_chat_complete(
           'gpt-4o-mini',
           jsonb_build_array(
               jsonb_build_object('role', 'system', 'content', 'You are a helpful assistant. Use only the context provided to answer the question. Also mention the titles of the blog posts you use to answer the question.'),
               jsonb_build_object('role', 'user', 'content', format('Context: %s\n\nUser Question: %s\n\nAssistant:', context_chunks, query_text))
           )
       )->'choices'->0->'message'->>'content' INTO response;

       RETURN response;
    END;
    $$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;
    ```

1. Execute your function in a SQL query:

    ```sql

>     SELECT generate_rag_response('Give me some startup advice');-*_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SELECT generate_rag_response('Give me some startup advice');
```

>     ```

Reviewer: Same here, should this get a result table?

Author: Good idea. Can I leave this to you in a followup pr?

   The `CASCADE` automatically installs `pgvector` and `plpython3u` extensions.

> ### Usage of pgai

Reviewer: Imo features should come before Installation. Installation is a bit of a detail and only relevant once you've been convinced by the feature set.

The main features in pgai are:
 
**Working with embeddings generated from your data:**
* [Automatically create and sync vector embeddings for your data](#automatically-create-and-sync-llm-embeddings-for-your-data)
* [Search your data using vector and semantic search](#search-your-data-using-vector-and-semantic-search)
* [Implement Retrieval Augmented Generation inside a single SQL statement](#implement-retrieval-augmented-generation-inside-a-single-sql-statement) 

**Leverage LLMs for data processing tasks:**
You can use pgai to integrate AI from the following providers:
- [Ollama](./docs/ollama.md)
- [OpenAI](./docs/openai.md)
- [Anthropic](./docs/anthropic.md)
- [Cohere](./docs/cohere.md)
- [Llama 3 (via Ollama)](/docs/ollama.md)

> Learn how to [moderate](/docs/moderate.md) content directly in the database using triggers and background jobs.

Reviewer: This seems a bit backwards, I would put this section below the 3 use-cases (except moderation).
My idea would be:
1. Explain what you can build with pgai: automatic embeddings, Search, RAG, Moderation, (anything else?)
2. Explain the building blocks for these features: generate, embed, classify, tokenize, ...
    a. This needs a subsection of what is supported for which provider maybe

So you'd start from a higher abstraction and go into the details later.

**Automatic Embeddings** is a bit of an exception because it's a low level feature, but it might be useful for you even if you don't want to make use of the rest of pgai (e.g. you want to build a RAG in python instead of SQL).
The problem with that is, if you explain it only later an interested user would never find it since they e.g. already have a system for RAG or are set on using python so you would lose them at the SQL for semantic search/RAG.
